Gameplay
In the game of Algomancy, you are an Algomancer vying for control over an AI simulated world. By manipulating source code
with your Algomantic powers, you are able to summon armies, cast spells, and modify game objects to expand their capabilities
or infect viruses onto the opposition.

How to Win
In order to win a game of Algomancy, you must eliminate all of your opponents by reducing their life total to zero. In team
games, you must elimiate the entire opposing team.

Flexible Game Options
Algomancy is an incredibly flexible game with a variety of game options. You can pair any of the game modes with any of the
player configurations. For the first game we recommend 1v1 or free for all. A brief summary of these is given below:
Game Modes
• Live Draft (Standard Algomancy): Players share one deck and draft cards from it during the game.
• Pre-Draft: You draft a complete deck of a minimum 30 cards before the game begins, and play games of constructed with it.
• Constructed: You build a deck with a minimum size of 30 cards and a maximum of 2 copies of each card ahead of time and
 bring that to your games.
• Team draft: Your team builds a large deck of 100 cards and a maximum of 2 copies of each card ahead of time and your team
 drafts from that deck during the game.
Player Configurations
• 1v1: A heads up game between two players that uses the initative system for more of a competitive aspect.
• 3v3: The standard team structure for algomancy. Teams of 3 battle it out to see which can come out on top.
• Free For All: A fun and casual experience for 2 to 9 players (and expandible to infinite players if more copies of the game are
 available).
• 2v1: An archenemy style game where one player with bonus cards and resources faces off against two weaker opponents.
Quick Start Guide
The best way to learn Algomancy is by playing it. This rulebook is designed to guide you through the basic
concepts of the game as you would encounter them in a first playthrough, so we recommend setting up a
game and learning as you go. To get started:
                                                                                       Wood and Fire cards
•Select which factions you wish to play with (For a first game,
 we suggest Fire and Wood). If you are not experienced, remove
 all of the rare cards from the decks (gold set symbol). Shuffle the
 cards from the chosen factions together. This is the deck.



                                                                    All cards in the deck have
                                                                    this cardback.


                                                          •Place all of the resources and tokens in a
                                                           convienient location where you can access
                                                           them during the game.




  •Randomly determine a player to have
   the initiative.
  •Set life totals to 30.
  •Deal 16 cards and 2 Mana converters
   to each player.
  •Begin the game!

                                                Assign at random       x16 in hand          x2 in play
                           Anatomy of an Algomancy Card
Cards
Algomancy cards each have the following characteristics:                                       1
                                                                                      2                          4          5
▪ All cards have a name (1).
▪ A mana cost (2) that must be paid in order to be played.
▪ Threshold (3) denotes how much affinity is required to play a card.                 3
▪ Some cards will have special timing icons (4), which modify when and how
 you can play them.
▪ Stats (5) which denote power and health, respectively.
▪ Attributes (6) describe the qualities of the card, including some combat abili-
 ties, denoted in bold.
▪ Most cards have Abilities (7), which describe the card’s effects.
▪ They also have a set symbol (8) which indicates the expansion and its color
 denotes the complexity of the card.
Units                                                                                 6                                      8
Units are permanents, meaning when summoned, they will stay in play until re-
moved. They can be easily recognized by the existence of stats on the card (5).
                                                                                                          7
                                   9
                                                      Spells
                                           10         Generally, spells provide temporary effects and are used to interact
                                                      with other players. When a spell resolves, it goes directly to your dis-
                                    11
                                                      card.
                                                      The most important aspect of a spell to pay attention to is the
                                                      timing indicator (4), which lets you know if the spell can be used
                                                      during combat or not.
                                                      Timing
                                                      ▪ Cards with no icon (9) can only be played during the main
                                                       phase.
                                                      ▪ Cards with the haste icon (10) can be played during the mana step
                                                       and the main phase.
                                                      ▪ Cards with the battle icon (11) can only be played when in combat
                                                       with another player (and not during the main phase!)
                                                      ▪ The virus icon (4) allows you to augment cards from hand during
                                                       combat (for more information, see Augment).

                                                      There are also spell units, which have a one time effect like spells but
                                                      also have stats (5) and enter play rather than the discard as they re-
                                                      solve.
    Resources
    Resources are the essential source of mana in Algomancy and are required in
    order to play your cards. They have the following characteristics:
    ▪ They have an affinity (1), which allows you to meet the threshold require-
     ments on cards.
    ▪ Attributes (2) which tell you the type of resource it is.
    ▪ Abilities (3) that describe any special effects of the resource.
    ▪ A set symbol (4), which tells you which expansion of the game they came
     from.

    All resources have the ability to be expended (turned sideways) for 1 mana once                    2
    per turn. This is how you pay for the mana cost of cards and abilities.
                                                                                      1                                        4

5

                                                                                                             3
                                                                  Tokens
                                                                  Tokens are temporary cards that are created directly into play
                                                                  during the game. If they leave play or enter a zone such as a
                                                                  hand or discard, they are erased from the game and returned to
                                                                  the token pile.

                                                                  In addition to the standard card attributes, tokens have the fol-
                                                                  lowing unique characteristics:
                                                                   ▪ While tokens do have a mana cost (5), it often 0, meaning
                                                                    you can play the cards “for free”. This specifically applies to
                             6                                      spell tokens (see below).
                                                                   ▪ Spell tokens have an attribute, Burst (6), which requires you
                                                                    to cast all of your tokens with the same name at the same
                                                                    time. They are still unique spells, but they are cast together.
                                                                   ▪ Many tokens have an X value (7), which is determined by the
                                 7                                  card that created them. For example “Create a Crystal 3”
                                                                    would set the X value of the created token as 3.
Spell Tokens
When you create a spell token, it is put directly into play in the region it was created in. Spell tokens are unique as they are the
only cards currently that are “cast” from play, which functions the same way as if they were cast from your hand, but you may
only cast spell tokens in the region the token is in. To get around this, spell tokens can be brought into other regions during the
attack step if they have units to guide them. This move is irreversible though, so plan carefully where you want to direct your
resources!
The magic captured in a spell token is limited, and any remaining spell tokens are erased from the game during re-
group, so be sure to use them before they go away!
The Turn
Turns in Algomancy are global, meaning all players share the same phases, and sync up at the end of each step. This process
will look slightly different depending on wheither you are playing a free for all or team based game (1v1 counts as a team game).
The simplest structure to understand is free for all, where each phase is truly shared by all players at once and intent tokens are
used to declare simultaneous attacks.
                                                          Free For All                        Team                       Legend

Initiative                                                                                                              Initiative
Team games utilize an initiative system, where
                                                           Untap                             Untap
teams trade off having the initative every turn                                                                       Non-Initiative
cycle. When a team has the initiative, they act
together and are required to act first in all situa-        Draw                              Draw                        All
tions. For example, during the mana and main
phases, the initiative team must make all of their
plays first while the non-intiative gets to wait            Draft                             Draft
and see what they do before taking their actions.

Because of this, the initiative combat step hap-            Mana                Mana                      Mana
pens in two phases:
▪ First, the initiative team declares their attacks,
 sending units into non-initiative regions. After          Attack              Attack                     Attack
 a priority window for interaction, the non ini-
 tiative team declare their blocking formations
                                                                               Block/
 while also having the opportunity to send at-              Block                                         Block
                                                                               Attack
 tacking units for a counterattack. The counter
 attacking units leave the region at this time,
 but their attack step takes place after the first        Damage              Damage                     Damage
 combat has completely finished. After the
 block/counter attack step, combat in the
                                                           After               After                      After
 non-initiative regions resolves as normal, with
                                                          Combat              Combat                     Combat
 a damage step and an after combat step.
▪ Second, the counterattacking units are put
                                                          Regroup                           Regroup
 into formation and the entire combat sequence
 takes place again with the non-initative attack-
 ers. Each team only gets one chance to attack,             Main                Main                      Main
 so there are no additional counter attacks here.

 Ending a Turn
 After the main phase, the turn is over. The initiative and any draft packs are passed to the next player in a clockwise direction
 and the entire process is repeated again.
                                          Draw and Draft Steps
Draw
Players draw 2 cards during the draw step on every turn after the first.

Drafting
Drafting is the process of selecting cards from “Packs” of cards. The main algomancy format uses a live draft throughout the
game as the source of cards. This all takes place during the draft step.
Packs
At the start of a game or when the draft is refreshed (see below), each player is dealt a Pack of cards. Packs in Algomancy always
have 10 cards in them when they are dealt or passed to other players. Packs may only be interacted with and looked at during
the draft step, and players may not look at the packs of other players. When a player is eliminated, their pack is recycled (put on
the bottom of the deck in a random order).

Complete Flexibility
During the draft step, players combine all of the non-token, non-resource cards in their hand with the pack and can draft a
completely new hand of cards. The only limitation is that they must pass a full pack of 10 cards at the end of the drafting step.
Effectively this means you should end up with as many cards as you started with in hand. So if you begin a draft step with 4
cards in hand, you will end the draft step with 4 cards in hand. But if you are unsure or lose track of how many cards you had,
you just need to make sure you are leaving 10 cards in the pack when you pass it.
This means you have complete flexibility and control of what cards you want during the drafting process. If you like your seven
card hand, you can just keep all seven of those cards and take nothing new. If your dislike your hand, you can completely ex-
change your entire hand for a completely new set of cards, or anything in-between!

Passing the Pack
Once you have finished a draft portion, you will pass your pack clockwise to the next player as an indicator that you are fin-
ished. Once all players have passed their packs, the draft step is complete.

Refreshing the packs
After N+1 turns, where N is the number of players, all of the packs are recycled (put on the bottom of the deck in a random
order) and each player is dealt a new pack of cards. For 1v1, this happens after the third turn, right before the fourth draft.

Team Draft
For team draft, a team of players will bring a pre-constructed deck of cards that the entire team will draft from. Rather than
passing their packs clockwise to the nearest player when finished, they pass it to the nearest teammate. Additionally, packs are
never refreshed in team drafts. All the other draft rules apply.

Constructed
In constructed, there is no deck to draft from, so the draft step and the draw step are combined into one draw phase. During
the draw phase in constructed, players draw 4 cards, then select 2 cards from their hand and put them on the bottom of the
deck in any order. This mimics the flexibility of the draft step while keeping the essence of a constructed format.
                                                The Mana Step
Resources
The mana step is when players have the ability to take and play resources, as well as
play cards with Haste timing. During this step, most resources are freely available
and can be picked up from outside the game by recycling a card in your hand (put-
ting it on the bottom of the deck). There is no player interaction during this step.

Players may play a maximum of two resources per turn, but are not limited in how
many resources they can take during the mana step. Additionally, each player
begins the game with two Mana Converters in play, which count as their two re-
sources for the turn. They may be exhanged with other resources if desired or held
onto for later.




  Shards and Affinity Bonuses
  All of the basic elemental resources have the ability “When I enter play, if you have at least three of my affinity, take a
  shard”. Shards are a resource that adds no affinity, but can still be expended for mana. This rewards you for sticking to one
  color by giving you additional mana! As an example above, when the third water is played, a shard can be put into hand
  for free (and played immediately). Any future waters that are played will also provide this benefit.
                                      Regions and Local Effects
Regions
All gameplay in Algomancy takes place inside of “Regions”. Each region is completely self-contained and isolated from all
other regions, meaning nothing that happens inside of one region will affect anything in another region. This is per-
haps the single most important rule of Algomancy: Every single effect is specific to its region. “Destroy all units” means “De-
stroy all units in this region” because as far as the effect is concerned, the units in the region are all the units that exist. “Each
player takes 1 damage” means “Each player in this region takes 1 damage” for the same reason. An effect that says “Delete target
unit” really means “Delete target unit in this region” because it cannot see the units in other regions. The only exception to
this rule is with the attack step, where players can enter neighboring regions by sending units over to battle.

Each player exists in their own unique region. This means that outside of the combat phase, there is absolutely no player inter-
action because there are no opponents to interact with. The player regions are arranged in a large circle, so each player has two
neighboring regions, except in the case of 1v1, where there is only one neighboring region. For team games, each player should
start with an opponent on either side of them.

When a player is eliminated, their adjacent regions become connected and the game continues. If playing a team game, after
their nearby opponents are eliminated, players may send attacks through allied regions into the nearest enemy region.


                                                                                       This player was eliminated.
                        Region




   Region        A Four Player Game           Region                          Region       A Three Player Game          Region



                                                          Player Eliminated



                        Region                                                                     Region



            Starting Configuration                                                        New Configuration
   If playing a team game, players sit as shown for the                    If playing a team game, after their nearby opponents are
     red and black teams, surrounded by opponents.                       eliminated, players may send attacks through allied regions
                                                                                         into the nearest enemy region.
Attacking
In order to interact with other players, you’ll need to enter their region or have them enter yours. This takes place during the
attack step as the beginning of the combat portion of a turn. During this step, you select a set of units and other cards such as
spell tokens that you wish to bring with you into a new region. Then you simply declare them as attackers by bringing them
into that region. By doing so, you and your units that you attacked with are now in the new region, and can be interacted with
as such.


Attacking in Free For All
In a free for all game, all players declare their attacks simultaneously using the “Intent” cards. Simply place an intent card face
down in front of each of your units and other cards such as spell tokens with your intended action. Once all players have finished
this, all of the cards are flipped up and the chosen attacks take place instantly!

There is a lot of freedom in how you can do this, so feel free to get creative. You can group units together behind one intent card
or even place multiple intent cards of the same type on different units in an attempt to hide your intentions!




Attacking in Teams
Team games utilize an initiative system where teams trade off having to act first. We say the team designated to act first each
turn has the initiative. The attack process is in this game mode is broken into multiple steps.
• First, the team with initiative declares all of their attacks at once.
• Then, after a priority window where players can interact, the defending team gets the opportunity for a counter-attack while
 they also declare their defending formations (more information on formations later).
• Combat is first resolved completely in the regions that were initially attacked by the initiative team.
• Then, combat in the counter-attacking regions is resolved.
A short way to remember it is that combat in team games has an attack -> counter attack flow to it, in contrast to the single
global attack step in free for all games.
                                                          Combat                                                      1       2


Units and Stats
Units are the basis of combat, as they are used to attack opponents, enter new re-
gions and defend yourself against invaders. Each unit has a set of stats (1,2) that indi-
cate their utility in combat. The two numbers represent the Power (1) and Health
(2) of the unit, respectively. Power indicates how much damage the unit will do in
combat, and health is a measure of how much damage a unit can take before it dies.


Combat Formations
When units attack or block, they are placed in a “Formation” just like soldiers lining
up for battle. Formations can be infinitely large in width, but only a maximum of
two units deep, as there is a front and back row. Attacking formations are set during
the attack step and defensive formations are set during the block step. Once a forma-
tion is set, the units are locked in position and are considered Adjacent to their left,
right, front and back neighbors until regroup.

Unlimited Columns


                                                                                            Hold the Line
                                                                                            Like in real combat, in Algomancy it is
                                                                                            imperative to maintain a solid front-
                                                                                            line of combat. This is upheld by the
                                                                                            following rules:
                                                                                            • The front row of a column must be
                                                                                             filled first before a unit can be placed
                                                                                             in a back row.
                                                                                            • If a unit is removed from a forma-
                                                                                             tion, any units behind it move to the
                                                                                             front row and take its place.
                                                                                            • If the last unit in a column is re-
                                                                                             moved from an attacking formation
                                                                                             before blocks, the columns to its left
                                                                                             and right close in to fill the gap.


                                                                              Max of 2 rows
Blocking
When a player is attacked by a formation, they get an opportunity to defend during the block step. To do so, they may place
units in front of the formation that is attacking them. The resulting group of defending units is also called a Formation, but
unlike offensive formations, the defending formation can have some missing columns.
                                                                                               Blocked

Blocked
Once a defensive unit has been placed in front of an attacking
column, that entire column is considered “Blocked”. Blocked
units won’t deal combat damage to you, even if the units blocking
them are removed!

Damage
After all of the blocks have been
declared and both players have
passed priority, we move to the
damage step. During the damage
step, all of the follwing damage        Attacking
processes happen simultaneously,        Formation
unless modified by an ability.

Each column of attacking units in       Defending
                                                                                             Missing
a formation deals damage equal to       Formation                                            columns
the combined power of each unit                                                              are fine in
within that column.                                                                          a defensive
                                                                                             formation
Unblocked attacking damage is dealt to the defending player’s life
total, blocked attacking damage is dealt to the defending column.

Similarly, each column of defending units deals damage equal to
the combined power of each unit within its column to the attack-
ing column it has blocked.

When a column of units takes combat damage, they recieve
damage from front to back. First, the front row recieves damage.
If the amount of damage recieved would be enough to kill the front row, any excess damage is dealt to the unit in the
back row. Excess damage beyond the health of the back row unit does not carry over to the player, unless the damage
comes from a unit with the Piercing attribute.

All damage on units goes away during the regroup step.
Attributes
In addition to stats, some units have Attributes (1), which can change how they engage
in combat. All of the units with attributes have a reminder text in italics to help you re-
member what each attribute does. Smoke Ghost here has the Flying attribute, which
says “Only flying units can block flying units.”

Units in the same column of a formation share attributes, meaning that if Smoke
Ghost attacks with another unit in front or behind it, both of those units have the
Flying attribute and the entire column cannot be blocked unless the defending player
also has flying units. Note that this only applies to columns. If Smoke ghost attacks to
the left or the right of another unit, it will not gain Flying.
                                                                                                 1
But be careful! If a unit with attributes is removed, all other units in its column will im-
mediately lose access to any attributes it had been sharing. This means if you attack
with Smoke Ghost and a plain 1/1 token, if the opponent kills the Smoke Ghost before
combat, they can block the token without flying units because the token would no
longer have flying!



                                                                                        Attribute Combos
                                                                                        This ability to share attributes is an incredi-
                                                                                        bly powerful aspect of Algomancy, so keep
                                                                                        your eyes open for any powerful combos
                                                                                        that this may unlock!

                                                                                        For example, if we attack with Malformed
                                                                                        Monstrosity in a column with Reality
                                                                                        Bender, Malformed Monstrosity would
                                                                                        gain the “Inverted” attribute, which revers-
                                                                                        es its stat changes. Because the Monstrosity
                                                                                        has an ability that gives it -7/-7, it becomes
                                                                                        inverted to +7/+7, turning it into a 17/16!

                                                                                        Similarly, Spike has the “Ranged” attribute,
                                                                                        which allows it to deal combat damage first
                                                                                        and block fliers. If we pair it with Big Eye,
                                                                                        who has the “Deadly” attribute, we can in-
                                                                                        stantly kill anything before it has a chance
                                                                                        to fight back!
                               Priority and Player Interaction
Priority
The term priority denotes the ability of a player to perform game actions such as casting spells or activating abilities. A player
with priority has the ability to do these things, while players without priority do not. In team games, all players on a team share
priority and can take actions in whichever order they choose amongst themselves.

Priority Window
A priority window is a sequence where players or teams
each recieve priority in order. In Algomancy, the attack,
block, damage and after combat steps all have a priority               I want to take                               I want to take
window, giving the players the opportunity to interact                    an action                                    an action
with eachother. The resolution of an effect, such as a
spell or ability also creates a priority window.          Begin Priority
                                                              Window       Initiative                                 Non Initia-
                                                                                          I don’t want to take
Within a priority window, first the initiative player will                  Priority                                 tive Priority
                                                                                            any more actions.
recieve priority. Then if they decline to do anything, pri-
ority will be passed clockwise to the next non-initiative                                I don’t want to take any
player in the region. This process is repeated until all                                   more actions either.
players or teams have passed priority.


Interaction                                                              Resolve the
                                                                                        No
                                                                                               Is the stack
                                                                                                              Yes
                                                                                                                       Go to next
If a player does use their priority to take game actions,                 top layer
                                                                                                 empty?
                                                                                                                         phase
they may maintain their priority to continue taking game
actions. Once they pass priority after taking an action,
each other player will recieve priority again to get a
chance to respond to their action. This process continues
until all players pass priority.


Example
In a 1v1 game Player A has the initiative and attacks player B. There is a priority window during the attack step, so player A re-
cieves priority first. They can play spells or activate abilities at this time.
• If player A passes priority and player B passes priority, the phase ends and we move directly to the block/counterattack step.
 Notice how you cannot respond to an opponent passing priority. Once you pass, you may not get another chance to act.
• If player A passes priority and player B casts a spell, Player A will recieve priority again.
• If player A casts a spell and player B passes priority, player A’s spell will resolve, creating another priority window.
• If player A casts a spell, and player B responds with a spell, player A will recieve priority again to react to player B’s spell.
                                                      The Stack
 First in, Last Out
 All interaction in Algomancy uses the stack, which abides by the concept of “First in, last out”. Visually you can see this by
 placing any new effects on top of any other existing effects on the stack. Then when its time to resolve a spell, you resolve them
 in order from top to bottom. Whatever spell or effect happened last will resolve first. Look at the example below.




I play Flame of history. My                They respond to Flame of His-                      I respond to Boon of Protection
opponent has a chance to                   tory with Boon of Protection,                      with Arc Lightning, putting it on
respond.                                   putting it on top of the stack.                    top of the stack.




                                                                                                  Null Drone resolves first as the top
All players pass priority. Arc            New spells can be added on top of an active             card of the stack, negating Boon of
Lightning resolves first, because         stack even after it has started resolving. I cast       Protection. If both players pass pri-
it was on top of the stack.               Null Drone targeting Boon of Protection.                ority, finally, Flame of History can
                                                      Modifications
Augment
Some cards have a little “+” symbol (1) at the beginning of a line in their text box (or
type line). This symbol denotes the Augment mechanic, which allows you to take all
of the text in the paragraph following the augment symbol and add it onto other
cards. For example, Big Flower has the augmentable effect “I gain +1/+1 for each
other ally.”
To apply an Augment, you must meet its threshold requirements. Then you pay its
mana cost and select a target to apply the augment onto. Place your augment card
beneath the targeted card, with the textbox visible beneath it to demonstrate the ad-
ditional line of text. You may augment cards onto any legal target and can
apply augments both from your hand and from your discard. Typically, Aug-
ment can only be done during the main phase so you can only augment onto your
own units (unless the card is a virus, more on that later).
There is no restriction on the number of times a card can be augmented, so go wild!

                                                                                                    1


                                                                             Control and Language
                                                                             When a card is modified, it is simply treated as if it
                                                                             were a single card with all of the additional text from
                                                                             its modifications. The augmented cards are not sepa-
                                                                             rate from the base card.
This token has                                                               This means that if you augment a card onto an oppo-
                                                                             nent’s unit, they control that modification and all of
been augmented                                                               that text applies to their card as if it were their own.
with the ranged
attribute as well
                                                                             Permadeath
                                                                             When a modified card dies or is erased (both Aug-
as the ability from                                                          ment and Graft, which we will discuss next, are mod-
Big Flower.                                                                  ifications), the card and all of its modifications are
                                                                             erased (permanantly removed from the game). So
                                                                             choose carefully when and how you use your modifi-
                                                                             cations because they can be lost forever!

                                                                             If a modified card would leave play but did not die or
                                                                             get erased (for example, if it was put into your hand
                                                                             from play), all of its modifications are put back into
                                                                             the discard.
Graft
The second modification in Algomancy is Graft, which is denoted by the two arrows
in a hexagon shape (1). All graft cards follow the template of “Cause ->(Graft) Effect”.
In the example of Sprouter, the cause is “Sacrifice me” and the effect is “Create a
Poison 1”. What the graft mechanic does, is allow you to add additional effects onto a
cause. Then the resulting card is read as “Cause -> Effect1 AND Effect2 AND Ef-
fect3...etc”. There is no limit to how many effects can be grafted onto a single card.
The resulting ability is treated as a single ability, so it will all resolve at once, from top
to bottom, and the entire thing can be countered by a single spell.

In the example on the right, we have grafted the card Overbloom onto sprouter. Now
sprouter reads “Sacrifice me: Create a Poison 1 AND (once per turn) Target unit gains                   1
+7/+7 until regroup.” The small 1 inside of the graft symbol of Overbloom (2) is
called a limited graft, which means that ability only triggers once per turn. Additional-
ly, if the cause of a card is limited, as in Moosh below, the entire graft effect is limited
to trigger that number of times. So even though “Create a Poison 1” is an unbounded
graft, this grafted ability will only trigger when it sees the first enemy die. It reads as
“Whenever an enemy dies (once per turn), Create a 2/2 unit AND Create a Poison 1.”
                                                                                                       2

                                                      Applying a graft follows the same cost and timing setup as augments (play
                                                      from hand or discard during the main phase, pay the card’s cost and meet
                                                      threshold requirements in order to do so), with the additional requirement
                                                      that both cards must have the graft symbol in order to be able to apply a
                                                      graft. To put it another way, you can’t simply graft an effect onto a non
                                                      graft card, because there is no cause to trigger that effect. Grafts can only go
                                                      onto other graft cards.

                                                      Grafted effects are read from top to bottom in order, so when applying a
                                                      new graft, you may insert the new effect at any position within the graft
                                                      stack below the original card, but you may not re-order the rest of the graft-
                                                      ed abilities.

                                                      If you have an unbounded graft cause and a mixture of bounded and un-
                                                      bounded effects, the graft cause will trigger an unlimited number of times,
                                                      but each of the bounded effects will only trigger a limited number of times.

                                                      If you have a bounded graft cause, the entire effect will only trigger a limit-
                                                      ed number of times.
